standard on 4runner trail multi-terrain
select is a system that helps regulate
wheel spin in order to provide the
maximum amount of traction for any given
off-road scenario multi-terrain select
seamlessly integrates the vehicle's
powertrain drivetrain and VSC a track
and ABS systems and helps provide driver
assistance
multi-terrain select is activated using
a switch on the overhead console
by turning the dial on the control
switch the driver can select from four
off-road terrain modes mud and sand
loose rock mogul and rock once a mode is
selected the accessory meter will
display directions for engaging the
correct four-wheel drive mode for the
mud and sand mode the transfer lever
must be in high for or low for position
in this mode no operational guidance
will be displayed in the accessory meter
when either the loose rock mogul or rock
modes are selected then the transfer
lever must be in low for and the
accessory meter will display
instructions either to stop the vehicle
and shift the transmission to neutral or
to shift the transfer lever to l4
depending on the terrain mode selected
the system will apply engine output and
hydraulic brake pressure controls
specific to the requirements of that
terrain when in mud and sand or loose
rock modes the system will apply
moderate to low levels of control to
help limit wheel spin and ensure forward
momentum examples of situations where
the driver would select either of these
two terrain modes include sand loose
soil gravel or deep snow
when either the Mogul or rock terrain
mode is selected MTS applies a high
level of engine output and hydraulic
brake pressure control to help prevent
wheel spin and ensure grip
depending on the mode the control level
is adjusted properly
let's look at these examples in detail
the natural tendency for a driver when
traversing a sandy embankment would be
to accelerate when sensing the vehicle
beginning to bog down in the sand in the
mud and sand mode the multi-terrain
select system automatically responds to
the drivers accelerator inputs in such a
way as to help limit wheel spin and
ensure forward momentum in this case by
limiting engine torque and engaging a
track to allow more wheel slip than
normal
in rock mode MTS will anticipate terrain
with an extremely bumpy surface and will
reduce engine torque and employ a track
to prevent wheel spin and ensure grip
you
in summary multi-terrain select as a
driver support system that is driver
selectable
and automatically adjusts the engine
output and a track hydraulic brake
pressure to optimize driving
characteristics and traction